CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to bash.ai

Thank you for your interest in contributing to bash.ai! This document provides guidelines and instructions for contributing.

## Code of Conduct

By participating in this project, you agree to maintain a respectful and inclusive environment for all contributors.

## How to Contribute

### Reporting Bugs

1. Check if the bug has already been reported in [Issues](https://github.com/made-after-dark/bash.ai/issues)
2. If not, create a new issue with:
   - A clear, descriptive title
   - Steps to reproduce the bug
   - Expected vs actual behavior
   - Your environment (OS, Python version, etc.)
   - Relevant logs or error messages

### Suggesting Features

1. Check existing [Issues](https://github.com/made-after-dark/bash.ai/issues) and [Discussions](https://github.com/made-after-dark/bash.ai/discussions)
2. Create a new issue or discussion thread with:
   - A clear description of the feature
   - Use cases and examples
   - Potential implementation approach (if you have ideas)

### Pull Requests

1. **Fork the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/bash.ai.git
   cd bash.ai
   ```

2. **Create a feature branch**
   ```bash
   git checkout -b feature/your-feature-name
   # or
   git checkout -b fix/your-bug-fix
   ```

3. **Set up development environment**
   ```bash
   # Install uv if not already installed
   curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh

   # Install dependencies
   uv sync --dev

   # Install pre-commit hooks
   uv run pre-commit install
   ```

4. **Make your changes**
   - Write clean, maintainable code
   - Follow Python best practices (PEP 8)
   - Add tests for new functionality
   - Update documentation as needed

5. **Run checks locally**
   ```bash
   uv run ruff check .
   uv run black --check .
   uv run mypy bash_ai
   uv run pytest
   ```

6. **Commit your changes**
   ```bash
   git commit -m "Short commit message (max 70 chars)" \
              -m "Extended description of what and why"
   ```

   Follow the commit message guidelines:
   - First line: 70 characters max, imperative mood
   - Second line: Extended description (unlimited)
   - Reference issues: `Fixes #123` or `Closes #456`

7. **Push and create a Pull Request**
   ```bash
   git push origin feature/your-feature-name
   ```

   Then create a PR on GitHub with:
   - Clear title and description
   - Reference to related issues
   - Screenshots/examples if applicable

## Development Guidelines

### Code Style

- Follow [PEP 8](https://pep8.org/) style guide
- Use `black` for formatting (line length: 100)
- Use `ruff` for linting
- Maximum line length: 100 characters
- Use type hints where appropriate

### Testing

- Write tests for all new features
- Maintain or improve test coverage
- Use `pytest` for testing
- Test error cases and edge conditions

### Documentation

- Update README.md for user-facing changes
- Add docstrings for all functions and classes
- Update CONTRIBUTING.md if process changes
- Keep commit messages clear and descriptive

### Dependencies

- Minimize external dependencies
- Use standard library when possible
- Keep dependencies up to date
- Document why new dependencies are needed

## Project Structure

```
bash.ai/
├── bash_ai/              # Main package
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── agent/            # Agent definitions
│   ├── config/           # Configuration management
│   ├── logging/          # Logging utilities
│   ├── plugins/          # Plugin system
│   │   ├── base.py       # Plugin base classes
│   │   ├── zsh_bindings.py  # Example plugin
│   │   └── __init__.py
│   ├── runner/           # Agent execution
│   ├── tools/            # Agent tools
│   └── ui/               # User interfaces (TUI, CLI)
├── config/               # Configuration files
├── docs/                 # Documentation
│   ├── architecture.md
│   ├── plugins.md        # Plugin system guide
│   └── ...
├── tests/                # Test files
└── ...
```

## Extending bash.ai with Plugins

bash.ai has a powerful plugin system that allows you to add custom commands, aliases, and behaviors. See [docs/plugins.md](docs/plugins.md) for detailed information on creating plugins.

### Quick Plugin Example

```python
from bash_ai.plugins import Plugin
from typing import Any

class MyPlugin(Plugin):
    def name(self) -> str:
        return "my_plugin"
    
    def should_handle(self, command: str) -> bool:
        return command.startswith("mycommand")
    
    async def execute(self, command: str, cwd: str) -> dict[str, Any]:
        return {
            "handled": True,
            "output": "Plugin executed!",
            "exit_code": 0,
        }
```

For more details, see the [Plugin System Documentation](docs/plugins.md).

## Review Process

1. All PRs require at least one approval
2. CI must pass (lint, test, build)
3. Code review feedback will be addressed
4. Maintainers will merge when ready

## Questions?

- Open a [Discussion](https://github.com/made-after-dark/bash.ai/discussions)
- Check existing [Issues](https://github.com/made-after-dark/bash.ai/issues)
- Reach out to maintainers

Thank you for contributing to bash.ai! 🚀

Commit message:

feat: implement bash-completion style system and rebrand to Flourish
Completion System:
- Create CompletionRegistry for managing command completions
- Create CompletionLoader for loading completion scripts from directories
- Support loading completions from project and user directories
- Add git completion as example
- Integrate with existing BashCompleter
- Modular and extensible design similar to bash-completion

Rebranding:
- Rename all bash.ai references to Flourish/flouri.sh
- Update package name from bash-ai to flourish
- Update command name from bash-ai to flourish
- Update all documentation (README, CONTRIBUTING, docs/)
- Update all docstrings and comments
- Update scripts and integration files
- Update logger names from bash_ai.* to flourish.*

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to Flourish

Thank you for your interest in contributing to Flourish! This document provides guidelines and instructions for contributing.

## Code of Conduct

By participating in this project, you agree to maintain a respectful and inclusive environment for all contributors.

## How to Contribute

### Reporting Bugs

1. Check if the bug has already been reported in [Issues](https://github.com/made-after-dark/flourish/issues)
2. If not, create a new issue with:
   - A clear, descriptive title
   - Steps to reproduce the bug
   - Expected vs actual behavior
   - Your environment (OS, Python version, etc.)
   - Relevant logs or error messages

### Suggesting Features

1. Check existing [Issues](https://github.com/made-after-dark/flourish/issues) and [Discussions](https://github.com/made-after-dark/flourish/discussions)
2. Create a new issue or discussion thread with:
   - A clear description of the feature
   - Use cases and examples
   - Potential implementation approach (if you have ideas)

### Pull Requests

1. **Fork the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/flourish.git
   cd flourish
   ```

2. **Create a feature branch**
   ```bash
   git checkout -b feature/your-feature-name
   # or
   git checkout -b fix/your-bug-fix
   ```

3. **Set up development environment**
   ```bash
   # Install uv if not already installed
   curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh

   # Install dependencies
   uv sync --dev

   # Install pre-commit hooks
   uv run pre-commit install
   ```

4. **Make your changes**
   - Write clean, maintainable code
   - Follow Python best practices (PEP 8)
   - Add tests for new functionality
   - Update documentation as needed

5. **Run checks locally**
   ```bash
   uv run ruff check .
   uv run black --check .
   uv run mypy bash_ai
   uv run pytest
   ```

6. **Commit your changes**
   ```bash
   git commit -m "Short commit message (max 70 chars)" \
              -m "Extended description of what and why"
   ```

   Follow the commit message guidelines:
   - First line: 70 characters max, imperative mood
   - Second line: Extended description (unlimited)
   - Reference issues: `Fixes #123` or `Closes #456`

7. **Push and create a Pull Request**
   ```bash
   git push origin feature/your-feature-name
   ```

   Then create a PR on GitHub with:
   - Clear title and description
   - Reference to related issues
   - Screenshots/examples if applicable

## Development Guidelines

### Code Style

- Follow [PEP 8](https://pep8.org/) style guide
- Use `black` for formatting (line length: 100)
- Use `ruff` for linting
- Maximum line length: 100 characters
- Use type hints where appropriate

### Testing

- Write tests for all new features
- Maintain or improve test coverage
- Use `pytest` for testing
- Test error cases and edge conditions

### Documentation

- Update README.md for user-facing changes
- Add docstrings for all functions and classes
- Update CONTRIBUTING.md if process changes
- Keep commit messages clear and descriptive

### Dependencies

- Minimize external dependencies
- Use standard library when possible
- Keep dependencies up to date
- Document why new dependencies are needed

## Project Structure

```
flourish/
├── bash_ai/              # Main package
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── agent/            # Agent definitions
│   ├── config/           # Configuration management
│   ├── logging/          # Logging utilities
│   ├── plugins/          # Plugin system
│   │   ├── base.py       # Plugin base classes
│   │   ├── zsh_bindings.py  # Example plugin
│   │   └── __init__.py
│   ├── runner/           # Agent execution
│   ├── tools/            # Agent tools
│   └── ui/               # User interfaces (TUI, CLI)
├── config/               # Configuration files
├── docs/                 # Documentation
│   ├── architecture.md
│   ├── plugins.md        # Plugin system guide
│   └── ...
├── tests/                # Test files
└── ...
```

## Extending Flourish with Plugins

Flourish has a powerful plugin system that allows you to add custom commands, aliases, and behaviors. See [docs/plugins.md](docs/plugins.md) for detailed information on creating plugins.

### Quick Plugin Example

```python
from bash_ai.plugins import Plugin
from typing import Any

class MyPlugin(Plugin):
    def name(self) -> str:
        return "my_plugin"

    def should_handle(self, command: str) -> bool:
        return command.startswith("mycommand")

    async def execute(self, command: str, cwd: str) -> dict[str, Any]:
        return {
            "handled": True,
            "output": "Plugin executed!",
            "exit_code": 0,
        }
```

For more details, see the [Plugin System Documentation](docs/plugins.md).

## Review Process

1. All PRs require at least one approval
2. CI must pass (lint, test, build)
3. Code review feedback will be addressed
4. Maintainers will merge when ready

## Questions?

- Open a [Discussion](https://github.com/made-after-dark/flourish/discussions)
- Check existing [Issues](https://github.com/made-after-dark/flourish/issues)
- Reach out to maintainers

Thank you for contributing to bash.ai! 🚀
